After 8 years of trading, this is still
one of my favorite high reward risk
scalping setups. It's called the
weakness rectangle setup and it uses one
simple rectangle to catch the first sign
of reversal early before everyone else.
It works on all pairs anytime of the day
and in this video I'll cover the basics,
the steps, examples and some tips to
help you get even better trades. I'll
also give you a free ebook with all the
details you need at the end of the
video. Let's start. Okay, so I don't
waste your time and you know what you're
getting. You're looking for one to one
reward to risk trades, then this video
is not for you and there is nothing
against that. But this setup focuses
more on trades like this. You take a
trade and that's the profit you get
about five to one, sometime even more.
And there are also other times where you
have losses and that's part of the game.
That's what actually every setup has. So
if you prefer something with high reward
to risk, mechanical, repeatable as well
and only focus on one rectangle or one
box for the entry, then this video is
for you. Now this setup works on every
market and anytime of the day. That
means you can use it on Nasdaq or S&P
500. You can use it also with gold, euro
dollar, pound dollar and all of the
other forex pairs that start with a USD
and you can also try it with the cross
pairs. And also it works on Asia, New
York and London meaning that you can
take this trade anytime of the day and
we'll be using the 15-minute time frame
as the main time frame and then the
1-minute time frame for the execution.
So I want you to think with me here on
how everyone almost trades reversal. So
what they need to see is that we failed
to close below a low and then we have a
break of structure. That means now we
have a range from here to here to trade
the continuation. So this is the first
sign of reversal. But if we go deeper
and deeper or even before, so before
this happen, some people would be
trading based on this candle or as the
beginning of the reversal. But we're
going to be focusing on the very
beginning of a reversal. And every
reversal starts with something unique
here, which is a wick. Now, this wick
here, if you go also here, you will
notice that it started with a wick. And
wick can be happening in different forms
and different conditions. Not every wick
you'll be able to trade, but we'll focus
on one that we can actually trade, which
is this one right here. So, what a lot
of people would do is they'll be waiting
for a break of structure and then a
retracement and maybe entering here. So,
an entry maybe maybe a limit order here
with a stop loss here and then take
profit one to one. What you can actually
do is enter before everyone. Yes, it's
going to be a bit more risky, but it's
going to give you much higher water risk
and even if you were against the trend,
you'll still have this move and sometime
price will go lower, but you already got
your higher water risk from this trade
already. So, the beginning of a reversal
is always a wick. And that's where
you're going to be entering at the
beginning of the weakness, at the
beginning of the reversal. So, you enter
here and we're going to be drawing a
rectangle going higher and even some
people would be entering here, but you
already took your profit. And before we
go into the steps and the tips and the
examples, let's understand the first
sign of reversal, which is the weakness.
So, if we zoom in here and what I want
to see is whenever we have a low, I want
to see a bearish candle taking the low,
but closing above. And this needs to be
a bearish candle. Now, yes, you could be
also entering with a bullish candle, but
to apply the setup, the specific setup
for today, you need to have a bearish
candle. In the other scenario, okay, if
I have a bearish candle here and this is
a high, I want to see this high taken
with a bullish candle. So, this needs to
be like this. And that's where the first
step is. Now, one thing to mention is
that a lot of people are having success
with the rectangle method, but it's a
small part of what I'm teaching now in
its school, the edge model, my setup.
So, if you think that you need something
more universal and something that works
on different time frames, then edge
model is here. There are people making
10 hour trades, 20R, and 12R, 18R. These
are the types of trades that I take in
its school. If you are interested in
this, the link is in the description.
Now, one thing I also want to mention is
that there are two methods to trade the
setup. There is a method of basically
trying to trade based on every single
high and low or every single weakness.
So, the moment I have a weakness here,
I'll be entering, and the moment I have
a weakness here, I would enter, I would
enter here. But, that's not going to
give you the best results. We want to
focus more on quality more than
quantity, meaning that I want to have a
smaller number of trades, but the result
is going to be much better, meaning that
I would only focus on high probability
scenarios, taking a trade from here,
going lower, and I will not be engaging
with this, and maybe have an entry from
here to here. So, now going to the
chart, there are three main steps that
we need to follow in this setup, and
each step could be followed in a
different way. And I want to be honest
with you here. The more you focus on the
high probability conditions, and the
more you master the setup, and the more
you apply your experience, you'll be
having better results. So, I do
recommend that you practice something
before you just apply it and then expect
a result from the first day, which is
never going to happen, and you will stay
in the same loop. So, going back into
this, the first step is direction, and
direction could be seen in different
ways. So, it could be simply looking for
a structure. So, I could simply say,
"You know what? I'm looking for a
structure lower, and the structure
itself is going to be my direction."
That is right. You could be using a
moving average or VWAP, a daily candle,
you know, you could do this your own
way, but I'll give you one simple
framework to follow here, which is
focusing on one fresh range. I want to
see price breaking structure, retracing
immediately, and staying inside the
range. This gives me a fresh range, and
I can trade based on this. And this
range needs to break a structure, needs
to have weakness at the top. Now, this
is one way, or if you simply think that
you are trading with a trend, then yes.
If you think that you're trading bearish
now, you could focus on highs. And if
you're trading bullish, then you focus
on lows. So, it could be as simple as
that. I'll show you different ways of
doing this. So, based on the the whole
move here, I think we're pushing lower
now. So, what I can do is look for and
that is the second step now, is look for
a valid high or low. And when I say a
valid, and that's something that we're
also going to be covering on the tips,
but I'm going to give you an overview of
it. So, what I want to see is I want to
see a high being taken into a key level.
And one of the easiest key level to use
is an imbalance. So, you can notice that
we do have an imbalance here, and that
is partially filled, and I can notice
that we're actually pushing lower. I
don't have a fresh range here. There are
a lot of movement here, but then I can
notice that we do have this move going
lower from here to here, and we filled
only a small part of the imbalance, and
then we continue lower all the way until
here, and then we start going higher.
And the moment we go above this high, we
failed to displace above, or we failed
to close above, and we had a rejection,
mostly from the 50% of the imbalance.
That is, for example, a valid high. So,
let's also look at this one right here.
As we're pushing higher, and we have a
range from here to here, and we're
staying inside the range, going lower,
and this is not into an imbalance. But
what I can see is that we have this low
being taken right here with a bearish
candle, meaning that this is a potential
setup here. Now, we're going to be
taking this as an example. Now, some
people would be asking, "Why not this?"
Because this one was taken with a better
scandal. And because this is a high, it
needs to be taken with a bullish candle.
As an example here, another one is here,
taking this with a bearish candle. So,
taking the low with a bearish candle is
a valid one, and we could have an entry
here. But, if you watch the video until
the end for the fifth sections, then you
would know why this is not the best and
the highest probability condition. Now,
using a replay, what we can do is after
this, after closing bullish but below
the high, that's where you have the
confirmation and you could be looking
for the entry. The entry is as simple as
this. You'll be looking at the closing
price of this candle all the way until
the high, all the way to the high, and
then you'll be switching to the 1-minute
time frame. And it's going to be simple.
Now, here you could be doing your own
thing. What I mean is that if you want
to look for a break of structure, then
yes, you could do that and have a limit
order here. But, the easiest one and the
most simple one is simply a closure
below the rectangle. So, this is the
rectangle that we draw the box. The
moment we close below, that's your
entry. Okay? So, playing the price
action, let's see. We close bearish,
yes. Some people would be looking at an
entry here. What I will do a lot of
times in order to have the best entry is
wait for a retracement and a stop loss
above above the rectangle right here.
Going back to the 15 minutes, I'll be
looking for the next either a S&R level
or the valid low or valid high. So, I
might be targeting this. I might be
looking for this level here. I might be
looking also for this imbalance. So,
let's say we're going to be taking here
and then
let it run after. But, let's see what
happened. Price goes lower, and that's a
huge one. I mean, this reached a 15:1,
an insane one. But, in this case, I
don't think price retraced back into the
entry. So, yeah. So, in this time, price
closed lower, and you would be deciding
between either waiting for a retracement
or just simply entering at the closure.
A lot of time, if you want the safest
entry and entering every time, then
you'll be going here, entry here, market
order, stop loss above. And that's also
still going to give you
a very high reward to risk ratio.
They're going to look at this, an 8:1
targeting this level. Okay, now if you
take a look at this one here, and after
taking the low, drawing the rectangle,
as simple as that. Go into the 1-minute
timeframe, the moment we close outside
the rectangle, this is not a good
closure for me. Looking at the price
action, that is a closure. You would be
entering from here, or you'd be looking
for the retracement. So, the retracement
for me, some people would be looking for
this imbalance, some people would be
looking for this S&R, okay? And then
stop loss below the rectangle, and
targeting the next 15-minute high or
low. Or you could be targeting, for
example, a fixed 3:1 or 5:1. So,
15-minute timeframe here, you could be
targeting this. Looking at the price
action, notice what happened. It fills
that level and even that imbalance that
I've talked about. I think price went
there. So, yeah, if you went to the
imbalance, 50% of it, you'd get filled
here, stop loss below. You could be also
doing this, back to the 15-minute
timeframe. You'd be taking some partials
here, and then letting the rest run.
That is an insane trade. And this is
your data here, and for me, it works
better on the Forex pairs, maybe because
this is my main thing, and that's what
I'm used to. But let's notice this, and
I really want you to also focus on Asia
session high and low, because if you
understand the direction of the market
on the higher timeframe, and then
observe the high and low of Asia, and
then whenever we have weakness around
that, it's going to give you one of the
best valid setups. So, for example, this
here, taking the high of Asia and
failing to close below, so drawing the
rectangle here, and then back to the
1-minute timeframe, let's notice what
happened in the price action closing
lower. So you already this one is a
valid one and I don't think I need other
trades men here. So plus goes above the
rectangle and maybe targeting because
this is a strong leg here. We might be
just targeting this a four to one day
going lower back to the 15 minute. So we
make it faster here in the price action
and retracement and then going lower and
going back. I can see the same setup
happening around Asia high as well. And
as I said, one of the best setup is
always trading of an imbalance when we
fill only part of it. So if you notice,
we fill part of it, we go lower and we
have a closure above and then a
continuation to the upside. Now this is
not going to be happening every time,
but whenever it happens, it's a high
probability. Notice all also here and
you would also notice here that we take
the high with a bullish candle. So this
is valid. Maybe it's not the best one,
but it's still valid. Now in this case,
if you enter somewhere in here and then
your stop loss goes exactly and the high
you'll be out. If you put it slightly
above as we've done with the previous
trades, then you would be safe and
that's what you can get out of this. And
even sometime if price is not ready to
move, you're still getting this move to
the outside. So you still enter
somewhere in here and you get a move to
the outside until here. So at least you
could go break even before price reverse
and take your stop loss. So there are
two main things that I want you to
understand from this. The first one is
the weakness is the first sign of
reversal. So understand this and then
the second thing is the rectangle
method. So the moment you have a
weakness, okay, so for example,
something like this, you can be drawing
the rectangle and have an entry. Now
your job is to decide what are the key
levels that you want to enter with. The
moment you have this, you add these two
and you have a trading plan that you can
trade based on. As well as one more
thing is the direction. How do you
decide and identify the direction? Is it
by the structure? Is it by a moving
average? Is it by a VWAP? Is it by
volume profile? Whatever you want to do.
Now, three quick tips that will save you
from some losses. Now, one of them is
the size of the wick. So, this is valid
and this one is valid, but which one is
better to trade and why? Some people
would say this because now you have a
bigger rejection, but there is a
downside to it, which is you simply
enter here, your surplus goes all the
way here and even if you want to trade
the next high, it's not going to give
you anything. But, in this case, if you
have this size of a rectangle and then
you enter here, your surplus here, your
take profit goes here and that's already
huge reward to risk. The big rejection
tells me that we are actually confirming
the reversal much more than this one,
but this one is going to give me higher
reward to risk, a smaller stop loss and
a better trade to take based on demand.
The second thing is the structure. So,
it's much safer and not only better, but
it's much safer to trade on a fresh
range, meaning that if I have already a
break of structure here, now this
becomes a fresh range because after
that, as we go lower, we did not have
that market structure shift happening on
the way. So, now I do have a minor
structure going lower and a minor
structure or maybe the external is going
bullish, but then the internal is going
bearish. But, in this case, we have a
break of structure immediate retracement
and then maybe a continuation here to
the upside. So, it's safer to trade
this, but you can trade both as long as
you're understanding what you're doing.
And the last thing is every weakness, in
order to validate it, it needs to be
happening off a key level. This could be
an S&R, a fair value gap or an
imbalance. This could be a volume
profile. This could be anything, but it
needs to be happening into a key level
because the moment we have this, we now
have two things happening at the same
time. We have the weakness and we have
the push from the key level. And that's
how you can actually focus on high
probability trades. So, that's it for
today's video. Make sure to check out
It's Cool, my community, if you want to
learn my trading strategy and trade with
me. Hit the like button and subscribe.
That's it and I'll see you next one.